[Music]
the sky is inherently democratic it's
accessible in principle anyway by anyone
everywhere just simply by the act of
looking up but like so many beautiful
things around us it's slipping away from
us and we haven't even noticed because
we're honestly not really looking so
what do we look at instead well we look
at our phones we look at our computers
we look at screens of all kinds and
honestly we really even take the trouble
to look up enough to see each other let
alone taking that next step to looking
up at the actual sky now there's a
tendency to think that the loss of our
dark night skies is the inevitable
outcome of progress change technology
and you know that's just simply not true
and later on I'll tell you why but first
I want to tell you about my experience
of the dark night sky I never saw a
truly dark night sky until I was 15 and
I was here in Arizona and I was on a
road trip I pulled over somewhere I have
no idea where I was
except I know what state and I looked up
and the sky was just filled with an
impossible number of stars so you see
I'm from New York City and in New York
you can see the moon
you can see a couple of stars more often
than not they turn out to be airplanes
when they land but you know there's
really not much else as a result most of
my colleagues who are astronomers spent
you know at least part of their youth
looking up at the sky in their backyard
and I never really had that experience
and as a result I'm really disappointing
on camping trips I don't really know
very many constellations the ones I do
know you probably know them too but you
know I'll never forget that experience
of the first time that I saw the dark
night sky and I was just flabbergasted
and how many stars there were and I felt
tiny
and then I also felt like where's this
been hiding this whole time who has been
hiding the sky for me and of course the
answer is obvious if you think about it
or if you look at this picture where on
the Left you're seeing the same
neighborhood taken during a blackout
versus on an ordinary night you can't
see the Stars if you drown them out with
light take a look at our planet this is
our planet from space
unlike stars which are really pretty hot
and glow in visible light so we can see
them
our planet is astronomically speaking
anyway pretty cold so it doesn't really
glow when you see the planet looking
like a sort of blue-green marble the way
it does in this picture you're seeing it
because the sunlight is reflecting off
of it and that's why you can see the
oceans the clouds the land so if the Sun
wasn't shining on it we wouldn't be able
to see the earth right or would we this
is our earth at night and it is one of
the most striking examples of how we
have affected our planet on a global
scale you can see light spidering out
across the globe everywhere now of
course there are broad expanses of ocean
that are still dark and in many
underdeveloped areas there's still
darkness but you'll notice that this is
a pretty global effect now we tend to
think when we think of places being lit
up a very extreme examples so Times
Square the Vegas Strip but really what
that picture shows you is that it's not
just these extreme examples it's
anywhere that uses outdoor lighting this
tends to be a really dramatic effect on
the ground to understand why all you
really have to do is think about the
shape of the light bulb so the light
bulb for all practical purposes is more
or less round this is great for its
original intended purpose of lighting up
the indoors you turn it on light goes
everywhere an individual light bulb can
light up your whole room more or less
now that's great if you're lighting the
indoors but in its application and
outdoor lighting that traditional shape
of the light bulb this sort of globe
that spreads light everywhere
is actually very inefficient so when
you're outdoors mostly what you care
about is lighting the ground beneath you
and your immediate surroundings all of
that light that gets scattered kind of
outwards and upwards doesn't actually
help you light the area around you what
it does is it scatters up into the sky
and becomes what we call light pollution
now even if you don't care anything
about scar stargazing this should worry
you because it means that 60 to 70
percent of the energy we use to light
the outdoors is wasted by blotting out
the stars now like I said I'm a big fan
of technology obviously I use technology
every day I'm a scientist and there's
this tendency to say that it's progress
that you know I'm I'm not suggesting
we're going to all go live by
candlelight and indeed technology is
allowing us to access the sky in ways
that are impossible otherwise now one of
the greatest examples of this is of
course the Hubble Space Telescope the
Hubble went up into space
it returns pictures daily and it allows
us to see things that we are incapable
of seeing with our naked eye in ways
that we've never been able to do before
in all of human history
now other examples of this would be
planetarium shows in the past couple of
years planetarium shows have become more
high-tech with these great
visualizations and even though this
isn't access directly to the sky it's at
least access to our knowledge about the
sky and indeed we can experience the sky
in a planetarium in a way that is
impossible for us to do just sitting out
and looking in the dark now all of you
have probably heard of the Hubble Space
Telescope and of planetariums but
there's also a ways for technology to
enable participation in people's
experience of the sky that you may not
be familiar with and these are called
citizen science projects citizen science
is when large research projects put
their data online teach ordinary people
like you to go and interact with that
data and actually contribute to the
research by making interesting or
necessary characterizations about it one
such example of this is what I'm showing
here called Galaxy Zoo galaxy zoo is a
project where
people get a 20 minute or even less than
that actually tutorial on how to
interact with these images of galaxies
and they learn to annotate the images
and within a couple of minutes they were
up and running and they're making really
useful categorizations and
classifications of these galaxies now
it's easy to understand why Galaxy Zoo
would be an easy sell for people to be
involved with it involves pretty
pictures galaxies are generally speaking
pretty attractive however there are many
many other flavors of citizen science
projects that people have delved into
that have various varying levels of
abstraction that you wouldn't
necessarily think that people would jump
at now one such example of this is the
citizen science project associated with
the mission that I'm part of called the
Kepler mission Kepler is a space
telescope and it looks for planets
around other stars by measuring the
light from those stars very very
precisely and we're looking for the
dimming caused by stars blocking off
some of that light and we have an
Associated citizen science project
called planet hunters now planet hunters
gives you like galaxies ooh a short
tutorial and within a couple of minutes
you're up and running and you're looking
at data from the Kepler mission and
looking for planets now the idea behind
this is an easy sell right but the
actual process of planet hunting
involves a lot of looking at graphs like
the one I'm showing you here and
annotating them I do this all day and
that doesn't even sound that interesting
to me however not only are people
interested in doing this but the citizen
scientists that work with planet hunters
have actually found planets in the data
that would have gone undiscovered
otherwise this is an author list from
the paper that they published of the
planet they discovered and you'll see
that all the people who contributed are
listed below and it's sort of a an
autumn algum of people's real names and
their login names you'll notice if you
look carefully this is the first
academic acknowledgement of the
importance of Irish coffee in the
discovery process
and I don't want to give you the idea
that these are you know some out-of-work
scientists or just a bunch of nerds that
are really into this there are 60,000
people who participate in these projects
and most of them don't have technical
backgrounds so clearly what this is
feeding into is people's curiosity and
their willingness to be part of the
scientific discovery process people want
to do this but all of this technology
and all of these digitally mediated ways
of experiencing the sky they still have
something of feel to me like looking at
an animal in the zoo it's a valid way of
experiencing that thing indeed you know
the lion in the cage is still real the
Hubble images are indeed real and you
know you can get closer to a lion in a
zoo than you can in the wild however
it's missing something it's missing that
savage beauty of experiencing that very
thing in the wild for yourself
unmediated by a screen the experience of
looking up and knowing that the sky that
you're looking at surrounds every known
living thing in the universe is very
profound think about that for a moment
we are the only planet we know of that
has life on it the sky that you see is
shared by every other living thing that
we know of in existence and one of the
things that I really like about my work
is that it allows me to step back from
my everyday and to experience the sort
of larger context this feeling that you
know just as we go out and we try to
find planets in in the universe that
might be like ours it always reminds me
of how precious what we have here is an
our night sky is like a natural resource
it's as though it's a park that you can
visit without ever having to travel
there but like any natural resource if
we don't protect it if we don't preserve
it and treasure it it will slip away
from us and be gone and so if you're
interested in this and this is something
that you want to learn more about I
encourage you in particular to visit
dark-sky org and to learn more about the
choices that you can make
can protect the dark night sky because
it belongs to everyone it belongs to all
of us and therefore it's ours to
experience as we wish and it's also ours
to lose thank you
[Applause]
[Music]